
Unless otherwise noted, Randoop is distributed under the MIT license,
which appears below.  Some files in Randoop's distribution are
distributed under a different license. These exceptions are:

Randoop source code:
  src/randoop/util/StreamRedirectThread.java (License in file)
  src/randoop/util/StringEscapeUtils.java (Apache License 2.0)
  src/randoop/util/StringPrintWriter.java (Apache License 2.0)
  plugin/src/randoop/plugin/util/ReaderInputStream.java (Apache License 2.0)

Libraries used by Randoop:
  lib/ (various licenses, see individual jar files)

Experimental subject programs (not part of Randoop's implementation)
  systemtests/ (various licenses)
  tests/ (various licenses)

Copyright @ 2010 Massachusetts Institute of Technology
Copyright @ 2016 University of Washington

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining
a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
.Software.), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to
permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to
the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be
included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

The names and trademarks of copyright holders may not be used in
advertising or publicity pertaining to the software without specific
prior permission. Title to copyright in this software and any
associated documentation will at all times remain with the copyright
holders.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND
NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE
LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION
OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION
WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.

This product includes software developed by the Apache Software
Foundation (http://www.apache.org/)."

The Randoop plugin uses the Silk icon set created by Mark James
(http://www.famfamfam.com/lab/icons/silk/).
