." Copyright (c) 1997, 2011, Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
."
.TH native2ascii 1 "18 Jul 2013"

.LP
.SH "Name"
native2ascii \- Native\-to\-ASCII Converter
.LP
.LP
Converts a file with characters in any supported character encoding to one with ASCII and/or Unicode escapes, or visa versa.
.LP
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.LP
.nf
\f3
.fl
\fP\f4native2ascii\fP\f2 [options] [inputfile [outputfile]]\fP
.fl
.fi

.LP
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.LP
.LP
\f2native2ascii\fP converts files that are encoded to any character encoding that is supported by the Java runtime environment to files encoded in ASCII, using Unicode escapes ("\\uxxxx" notation) for all characters that are not part of the ASCII character set. This process is required for properties files containing characters not in ISO\-8859\-1 character sets. The tool can also perform the reverse conversion.
.LP
.LP
If \f2outputfile\fP is omitted, standard output is used for output. If, in addition, \f2inputfile\fP is omitted, standard input is used for input.
.LP
.SH "OPTIONS"
.LP
.RS 3
.TP 3
\-reverse 
Perform the reverse operation: Convert a file encoded in ISO\-8859\-1 with Unicode escapes to a file in any character encoding supported by the Java runtime environment.
.br
.br
.TP 3
\-encoding encoding_name 
Specifies the name of the character encoding to be used by the conversion procedure. If this option is not present, the default character encoding (as determined by the \f2java.nio.charset.Charset.defaultCharset\fP method) is used. The \f2encoding_name\fP string must be the name of a character encoding that is supported by the Java runtime environment \- see the 
.na
\f4Supported Encodings\fP @
.fi
http://docs.oracle.com/javase/7/docs/technotes/guides/intl/encoding.doc.html document.
.br
.br
.TP 3
\-Joption 
Pass \f2option\fP to the Java virtual machine, where \f2option\fP is one of the options described on the reference page for the java(1). For example, \f3\-J\-Xms48m\fP sets the startup memory to 48 megabytes. 
.RE

.LP
 
