." Copyright (c) 1997, 2011, Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
."
.TH serialver 1 "18 Jul 2013"

.LP
.SH "Name"
serialver \- The Serial Version Command
.LP
.LP
The \f3serialver\fP command returns the \f2serialVersionUID\fP.
.LP
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.LP
.nf
\f3
.fl
\fP\f3serialver\fP [ options ] [ classnames ]
.fl
.fi

.LP
.RS 3
.TP 3
options 
Command\-line options, as specified in this document. 
.TP 3
classnames 
One or more class names 
.RE

.LP
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.LP
.LP
\f3serialver\fP returns the \f2serialVersionUID\fP for one or more classes in a form suitable for copying into an evolving class. When invoked with no arguments it prints a usage line.
.LP
.SH "OPTIONS"
.LP
.RS 3
.TP 3
\-classpath <directories and zip/jar files separated by :> 
Set search path for application classes and resources. 
.RE

.LP
.RS 3
.TP 3
\-show 
Displays a simple user interface. Enter the full class name and press either the Enter key or the Show button to display the serialVersionUID. 
.TP 3
\-Joption 
Pass \f2option\fP to the Java virtual machine, where \f2option\fP is one of the options described on the reference page for the java(1). For example, \f3\-J\-Xms48m\fP sets the startup memory to 48 megabytes. 
.RE

.LP
.SH "NOTES"
.LP
.LP
The \f3serialver\fP command loads and initializes the specified classes in its virtual machine, and by default, it does not set a security manager. If \f3serialver\fP is to be run with untrusted classes, a security manager can be set with the following option:
.LP
.LP
\f2\-J\-Djava.security.manager\fP
.LP
.LP
and, if necessary, a security policy can be specified with the following option:
.LP
.LP
\f2\-J\-Djava.security.policy=<policy file>\fP
.LP
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.LP
.LP
.na
\f2java.io.ObjectStreamClass\fP @
.fi
http://docs.oracle.com/javase/7/docs/api/java/io/ObjectStreamClass.html
.LP
 
